25 women from the village el carmen frontera
of the municipality of malacatán san marcos
they learned how to make piñatas according to
unveiled 2 libramos representatives
of the municipal office of the woman of
this town
the learning was done in the playground
of a ladies house and the
representative of the uem reported that the
process consists of a training that
made today with 25 women
from this community where they learned the
way to make piñatas of all kinds
this training was carried out by
half of the steps they have taken
the neighbors of this community with the
municipal office of women
the ladies will learn different
workshops among them how to make soap
to wash clothes to wash dishes soap
of smell shampoo among others and by the
at the moment they are learning to
can use it in their homes and more
forward with the experience they can
place your own company to be able to
have income for their homes
nowadays a piñata has a value
from 20 quetzales onwards and the day
today the ladies learn to elaborate
the ones to be able to obtain income
economic for their families
the lady will receive a guaranteed diploma
by the ministry of education in the
which she will be informed that
they held this training so that
they can at any time
use it and put it to good use and power
help their families
and definitely thank you truly to the
Mr. Mayor to his wife wife by
this support that they give to the communities
of the rural area and the truth that if
need in this case was the carmen
border that is being supported by
part of them to be able to perform
different courses true that you can
serve them to be able to this in a
given time to meet the needs of the
true home and support is appreciated
especially also to which to the
director of the Office of Women
also true that through them
channeled the organization and out there to
Doña Lila Ruiz also true that is the
that the one that has fought because of this
this organize women strong
I greet all the ladies here
present that are active true
excited about the piñatas and the
pastry that is being made is being
taking place right now in this place
thanks to the municipality true sir
mayor and also to the lady of the
office of the woman to the youth of the
University of San Carlos that we are
supporting in the sense of giving us talks
this for the health benefits of
the woman and we also have the miss
from here
social work work
and business administration then
this we have a nice a very very group
active and very cooperative ladies
very attentive to their activities so here
We are truly making you want to
work and we thank you very much
that this will get us out of a big hurry
to us here it serves us well enough
distraction also to help us
economically and to support us in
our daily activities
Well, look here ladies here
this I think they just wanted a big
nudge so that they could already
use their creativity as they see it
here there are several variables but this what
that we have worked directly now
is the base of the piñata after this
we continue with what are these dolls and
we ended up with numbers then when she
are they really have already learned
this one day a pineapple is used
tie wire wire flower which
you work with newspaper paper
of wrapping white
and the tools that are pliers
Well, first of all, truly
thank God for the life that he
gives us in this hour truth the
opportunity to be here with my
coworkers that the group is
flame saron rose and thanking
the municipality of the woman truth already
the peers of the university group
social and the other group is called the of
diversity is called this
business Administration
and social work too
Well, here you are happy with the group and
we also thank God for being
this wonderful day and we give it
this also in thanks to the wife
of the mayor because because of her we are
here this project to make piñatas
and the office of the
of the woman that they have also given us
supported and those piñatas see how they have
seen are made by the group of
here of the border and it has
benefited a lot and it is also a
income for each family of
members
because our mission is to inform you
ntm news reported herbert de lyon